---
title: Ember Sniper
type: 'project'
date: '2022-01-01'
covers: ['https://static.404wolf.com/the_queue.webp']
description: |
  For many, it's a sandbox for creativity, and a haven for ingenuity. And yeah, it is that. But for me a few years back, it was much much more: it was a lucrative business opportunity. At the time, I had first entered the realm of Minecraft-username-trading. A corner of the internet dedicated to buying/selling accounts with cool names for exorbitant prices. But what caught my eye was a niche of the niche: username-snipingâ€”using bots to 'snipe' accounts with cool (and valuable) usernames right as they become available. Though it sounded simple, it turned out to be an intense, competitive game of tactic.
tags: ['personal']
---

# Contents

# Inspiration

Previously, Minecraft had been to me, much like it is to the rest of the world,
a videogame. I had done some tinkering with datapacks, experimented with the
interesting mechanics of redstone, and contrived some unique art with WorldEdit,
but none of my prior experience was anything like what was to come. The first
stage of the journey was discovery of the Minecraft-specific social media
company [NameMc](https://namemc.com). NameMC is a website dedicated to indexing
all Minecraft accounts, and then producing profiles wherein you can link your
contacts and socials. The goal is to help people find information about account
owners, share your account's "skin" (your avatar's exterior), and more. However,
NameMC was more than just a profile based Minecraft social media network. It
also cataloged name changes and account cosmetics like capes.

On NameMC, one specific page caught my eye above the rest:
[the minecraft names droptime table](https://namemc.com/minecraft-names). This
page neatly listed all usernames soon to be available for claiming, and showed
when they were to free up. It was able to list out all the names because NameMC,
by polling accounts and caching the information was able to store the
name-change history of all accounts, and automatically could list people who had
recently changed their username. As I scoured the page, I saw that there were
some really neat usernames soon to become available, and began wondering how
hard it would be to claim them.

The first name of interest happened to be "adult," which I thought would be a
really unique account name, so, instinctively, I got myself situated at my desk,
logged into my account's settings page, entered the name, and carefully hovered
my cursor over the "Change Your Username" button. But, as it turned out, my
single hopeful click, also known as a "hand snipe," was no match for the storm
of thousands of automated 'sniper' requests that I would soon learn about. When
the time came for the name to become publicly claimable the page momentarily
lagged out, and then the name was snatched away by a big-name username 'sniping'
organization.

# Research phase

As usual for these sorts of projects, my adventure into the world of username
sniping began with extensive research. The Minecraft username community turned
out to mostly take the form of a fairly decentralized array of Discord servers.
I hopped from one to another, making friends and further exploring the
community. I came across many smaller organizations just starting out, trying to
make a name for themselves. I traversed many larger scale marketplaces for
Minecraft accounts, some having complex auction systems and account proxying
services (offering to sell your account through their system for a fee). I
encountered middlemen that had built up reputations for trading tens of
thousands of dollars worth of accounts, and much much more. Through my traipses,
though it seemed insane to me that people were paying thousands for videogame
accounts with cool names, I knew that there was potential for me to start a
service of my own.

### Sniping Services

One unique category of Discord server that I found interesting was that of
username snipers. These servers had brands associated with them, such as the
popular "Hydra" or "Cupid" sniping service. These services would go after the
high-value usernames like "adult" with dozens of accounts and servers running
proprietary software, and would then hold high-stakes auctions for names that
they successfully obtained. Almost all snipes would go to these big players,
since the more money they made the more they could reinvest in accounts and
servers, and the more time they could afford to spend developing their snipers.
Since Mojang technically doesn't allow you to sell accounts, the sales process,
unless you were using an expensive middleman, heavily involved trust, and was
always carried out with non-refundable cryptocurrency. It was clear to me that
to be a popular sniper, you'd need to first build a reputation.

Since I was interested in a more hobbyist take on sniping, I started out by
searching for tools to get started tinkering with. As it turned out, there were
already many open source public autoclaimers out there to mess with, such as the
first one I tried [McSniperPy](https://github.com/MCsniperPY/MCsniperPY), a
popular choice written in Python. It was preconfigured and easy to use, and was
open source. To me it seemed like gold mining: just for fun, with a chance of
extreme success. I also came across
[the fascinating youtuber Xinabox](https://www.youtube.com/user/XinaboxGaming),
along with a few others, who produce content specifically on the "og minecraft
community" (a catch-all term for those interested in valuable accounts). At this
point, I knew I wanted to get involved, but would need to further research the
technicalities first. At that time, I was attempting snipes with a single
account to claim names that interested me personally.

## Getting started

But, I wasn't ready to settle for a popular open source sniper, and was sure I
could do better. After weeks of learning about network requests for the first
time, toying with async Python and multithreading, and exploring the actual
endpoints of Mojang, I was beginning to get a better grasp of what I'd need to
do. As it turned out, names release a few milliseconds early, so I'd need to
extensively experiment. Each account was allotted only a few
name-change-requests a minute, so I'd need many accounts. And, same-IP-requests
led to processing gaps, so I'd need many servers. For every server I could only
fit a few accounts, so there'd be an expensive recurring investment in compute
time in addition to the actual account costs.

## The partnership

![Friend's skin art shop](https://static.404wolf.com/friend_name_mc_art.webp)

One of my first friends in the community, someone who went by "wro" (and I later
came to know as Michael, and only years later got to meet in person!) had carved
out a particularly interesting niche for himself selling NameMC skin art. NameMC
skin art, potentially the subject of a future post, takes advantage of NameMC's
skin history display to showcase art on your NameMC profile page. NameMC
displays a grid of your 27 most recent Minecraft account's avatar's faces, so by
designing pixel art and then converting it to many skin files, one can build up
a grid to take the form of an pixel artpiece. My friend was offering to create
the art and skin files as a service, which I found really cool.

![Example skin art (by me)](https://static.404wolf.com/my_skin_art.webp)

He told me that he'd had some experience sniping usernames, and we began
discussing some of his past experiences and successes. He said that in the past
he'd sniped some lower tier accounts and made enough money to scale to around 9
accounts, and that it was around then that he struck success sniping the
username "vac," which was sold for a significant amount of money. He knew a lot
about the pre-drop delay (an important username autoclaiming configuration
option), and other configuration related matters. He was interested in getting
back in the game, but wasn't quite ready to make such a large investment, and
didn't know how to code well enough to code a sniper of his own.

(On an unrelated note, I've coded a tool to apply any NameMc art of your
choosing to your profile, which can be found
[here](https://github.com/404Wolf/AutoSkin))

### The offer

The problem was that, as it turns out, Minecraft accounts are really expensive.
Used accounts can be acquired much cheaper, but they aren't popular in the
sniping scene for a few reasons. For one, it's less secure to buy a used account
from a sniper, since Mojang only recognizes the first owner as the true owner,
and so without the codes found in the confirmation email from purchasing the
game, there's no way to prove to Mojang 100% that it's you're account if
anything were to go wrong and you were to get locked out of the account.
Secondly, at the time when we were considering trying to snipe names, an
approach called "Giftcard Sniping" was much more popular than trying to change
the name of used accounts right at drop time. With "Giftcard Sniping," you'd
claim a Minecraft giftcard on a brand-new Microsoft account, and then close out
of the tab on the "choose your username" page. It turned out that the "set your
username" button on that page had a rate limit of 6 requests per minute, up from
3 from the "change username" button for older used accounts. In other words, by
using brand-new prepaid Minecraft accounts and activating them with a specific
username at droptime you'd have a better shot than changing the name on already
existent accounts.

To get us started, I had the single account that I had bought from my own
testing, and wro had an extra account of his own that the he also had used for
tinkering. However, it didn't take long to realize that two accounts was nothing
compared to what our competition had. Some other snipers were sniping with
thousands of dollars worth of brand new accounts, and thus were automatically
sending thousands of requests. Some weren't as ethical, and used myraid stolen
accounts, and though I was strongly against the ethics of that, they were a
threat to our business notwithtstanding. But where things took took an
unexpected and exciting turn was when someone reached out offering wro a
substantial discount on bulk Minecraft account giftcards. When buying in bulk,
this anonymous figure offered us brand new accounts for only 5 a piece, down
from 25. Wro wanted me to go half in with him on 20 accounts, and start a
sniping organization of our own. With such a large number of accounts, we'd have
a much higher chance of winning names, and so it seemed like a reasonable
investment. And that's where it all began.

# The beginning

![First few sales](https://static.404wolf.com/first_few_sales.webp)

I still reminisce of the first few days of set up: we created a Google
spreadsheet to log transactions before we even had any, set up a discord server
to garner customers, and spent a while deliberating on what to name our
organization (we eventually decided to name ourselves "Ember"). We began by
sniping lower 'tier' usernames, such as random 3 character long ones, using
McSniperPy on a few [Vultr servers](https://www.vultr.com/). Through the process
we were able to get a better grasp of the configurations of our sniper. For the
first few weeks we spent all our money reinvesting in discounted accounts,
building up our request capacity and slowly buying more and more servers.

We quickly realized, however, that while McSniperPy is great for first timers
and people sniping with just a single account, it was unideal for larger sniping
organizations. It was designed to work with only a few accounts, and we needed
to set up each server one by one on manually with only 2-3 accounts per server.
Most of the major competitors had custom, larger codebases, with tools to
automatically queue snipes and more accurately send name change requests at the
second of drop. To get us started, my friend was able to get a proprietary
socket-request based Python sniper from an old friend in the community. As we
continued expanding, I began forking it to allow for name queuing with a discord
bot, using a simple Flask API to create threads of the sniper on the servers.
But as we continued growing, even this quickly outgrew our needs.

## Expansion

While co-managing our auctions and facilitating transactions, I spent
significant time making our systems more scalable and efficient. For the first
few stages I improved the discord bot interface, and then proceeded to add more
advanced features to attempt boost our odds. I made it so that we could set up a
queue of many names, and have them automatically get 'sniped.' I added a channel
in our main discord server that would announce successful snipes automatically,
so that customers could start bidding right away, and that would automatically
remove the account data from the list of accounts to snipe with when an account
had its name changed. And, I added the ability to spread out the request offsets
across our servers, so that we didn't have to bet on just a single droptime.
Also, taking inspiration from many other snipers, we made it so that when our
sniper were to succeed, it'd automatically swap the brand-new-account's skin to
a skin with our logo. That way customers checking NameMC to see who got the name
would know it was us when we won.

## The gamechanger

After a few weeks of obsessive coding and growing our operations, we were at the
point where we were sniping many names a day with upwards of 15 VPSes running at
all times, causing operational costs to spike to over 100 a month. We were still
profitable, but it was a huge money suck. The more accounts we had, the more
servers we'd need, the higher the price. But together, we worked up an ingenious
solution. If the VPSes only required 10 minutes to authenticate all our accounts
and send the name-change requests, then why'd we need to pay for 15 24/7 VPSes?
Sure, you can better tune the servers and get a sense of their individual
latencies, but was it really that big of a deal? Instead, we could just have one
central server deploy (create) all the servers we need for all the accounts 10
minutes before droptime, and automatically 'ship' the accounts and settings to
them. It was an extensive, elaborate undertaking, and I didn't have much of an
idea as to where to get started, but it seemed to definitely be the best way
forward. While our competitors were spending hundreds a month on server
overhead, we could focus our spending on accounts and maximize our number of
requests. The more requests, the higher the chance that a single one of them
wins.

# The system

![Queueing many names](https://static.404wolf.com/queue_bulk_add.webp)

After coming up with the plan, I got to work. I read up on
[Vultr's REST API](https://www.vultr.com/api/), and created a script to
automatically deploy servers. With
[async ssh](https://asyncssh.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) I made it so that, as
planned, one parent server would automatically spawn a 'sniping' child sever for
every 2 accounts, and added a queueing system. We elected to make our interface
Discord-based because of the ease of implementation, and because that was where
we were holding our auctions. To put a name in the queue all we had to do was
type `/queue <name` into Discord; it was super convenient. And, as can be seen
to the right, I made it so that a simple slash command one could add many names
to the queue at once, which would then get setup prior to drop. We'd spend times
together scrolling through NameMC's monthly drop-list, pre-queuing all the names
we thought we'd be able to turn a profit on.

## Operations

![Deploying VPSes](https://static.404wolf.com/setting_up1.webp)
![VPS set up confirmations](https://static.404wolf.com/setting_up2.webp)
![Set up confirmations](https://static.404wolf.com/setting_up3.webp)
![Log of name-change requests](https://static.404wolf.com/requests.webp)

As time went on, I continued adding innovative and unique features to our sniper
to increase our success odds and streamline operations. One of the next
improvements I made was to send many requests evenly distributed within a
specific interval small time interval, so that we'd not miss the often
unpredictable droptime-window. More competitive names tended to generally take
longer to release due to the sheer amount of requests other people sent, due to
server lag. By spreading out requests, we'd be more likely to send the request
right at the moment the name were to become free..

The finalized system was super efficient. It'd wait until 10 minutes before the
last item on the queue was to drop, would automatically deploy a server for
every few accounts where each server was staggered by a fraction of a second,
and, after the servers were finished loading, via SFTP would ship the account
login data to each server. The parent server would concurrently SSH in and run a
setup Python script, along with syncing the clock and other setup. The child
servers would ping mojang to attempt to change the username of the accounts that
they were serving, and then would automatically destroy themselves (undeploy) to
save on server costs.

The system was quite finiky at first, but improved with time. As I worked on it
we had an inventory of 50-80 accounts, and so when anything went wrong we'd be
left with 30-50 Vultr servers running concurrently and billing me .05/hr each.
Even short intervals of time spent with servers left over from testing running
added up to 100s of extra expenses, but the ultimate system saved us so much
money that it quickly paid for itself. Not only did we save money on server
hosting, but we also saved time that would otherwise need to be spent manually
authing into and configuring servers.

# Ending operations

![Sniping explicitly not allowed](https://static.404wolf.com/inedNoSniping_0001.png)

Eventually, though, sniping became more challenging. Some snipers began taking
things too seriously, and were actually DDOSing Mojang's servers. Mojang was
forced to modify their systems so as to deter username sniping, and eventually
Ined, one of the admins at Mojang, actually Tweeted to officially note that
sniping is not allowed. They started out by cutting the rate limit for accounts,
but that didn't stop the problem. They reworked the API a bit, and eventually
our sniper broke, and offsets were completely different. Since the API for their
systems is not technically supposed to be a public open API, it was completely
reasonable for them to do what they wanted with their API, and using it to snipe
names was inherently always at risk of an overhaul. Since we hadn't won snipes
for a while and because with my senior year of high school approaching I had
limited freetime, we decided that it'd be a good time to end the project. Given
how large the community is, it wasn't that hard to find someone to buy all our
unused Minecraft accounts that we were using to snipe with in bulk, and with
that sale the project was over. For a while before the API changes we received
various offers for large amounts of money to actually buy the software that I
developed, which we never were able to end up selling once its lost its value.
We were still lucky, though, since shortly after selling all our accounts Mojang
finally began blocking all requests from datacenter IPs with Cloudflare, which
made sniping completely impractical. Some people continued by using residential
proxies, but to continue that way would be a major, major expense. Ultimately,
the experience was definitely really fun, and decently profitable experience,
but the project was more than anything extremely educational. It's how I
initially learned Python to the extent that I know it now, and gave me
experience with various web frameworks for the first time.
