---
title: Val Town CLI
type: project
date: '2025-01-01'
covers:
  - 'https://static.404wolf.com/37c9a2a8-3f0a-4b52-a9c7-cf7c0cc0799b.webp'
  - 'https://static.404wolf.com/430777215-b0211414-1fa5-4b7c-8612-b9459a2cb8f8.gif'
tags:
  - work
  - featured
description: |
  A technical dive into the development of VT, Val Town's new command-line tool that enables local development for Val Town projects. Engineering considerations behind building VT, like its evolution from a FUSE-based approach to a more compatible Git-inspired CLI design. How VT handles synchronization between local and remote environments, file watching for live development, and the challenges of implementing features like rename detection.
---

**Note: This is a cross-post from my original post at
[https://blog.val.town/vtlsp](https://blog.val.town/vtlsp)**

# Try it out!

Here's a live demo of the VT CLI (in a [Cloudflare
container](https://developers.cloudflare.com/containers/)). This is *probably* a
bad idea, so please don't abuse it ðŸ˜‚.

<iframe
  src={`https://vt-demo-2.wolf-mermelstein.workers.dev/?id=${Math.floor(Math.random() * 5) + 1}`}
  className="border border-solid border-black w-full h-[600px] rounded bg-slate-100 mb-4"
  title="Val Town LSP Demo"
></iframe>

# VT Launch Post

Introducing **vt**, the CLI for Val Town that lets you use your favorite editors
and local tools. Now you can use VS Code, Claude Code, Codex and more with our
super-fast feedback loop, deploying software instantly as you develop it.

<video
  src="https://filedumpthing.val.run/blob?key=blob_file_1748008498288_demo.mp4"
  controls
  autoplay
  style="width: 100%; height: auto; aspect-ratio:  1645/1080; border: 1px solid #000;"
/>

To get vt,
[install Deno](https://docs.deno.com/runtime/getting_started/installation/),
then run

```sh
deno install -grAf jsr:@valtown/vt
```

With vt, you can:

- Use `vt watch` to watch a folder for changes, pushing updates and redeploying
  instantly as you save
- Remix or create brand-new Val Town projects directly from your command line
- Livestream logs from your Val directly to your terminal
- Manage branches, switching between separate deployments or prod & dev branches
  of a project

We designed vt to work much like `git`, so `vt branch` and `vt checkout -b` work
just like you'd expect. But the real magic is in the `vt watch` command: vt can
resolve deltas between Val Town and a local folder of TypeScript and text files,
automatically detecting file changes like renames and modifications. As you edit
in VS Code, neovim, or your favorite editor, every time you save the changes go
live. Or, if you don't want to live on the edge, you can use `vt push` to
explicitly push new changes.

## Bring your own editor - and LLMs!

<div style="position: relative; padding-top: 61.36363636363637%;margin-bottom: 2em; border: 1px solid #000;">
  <iframe
    src="https://customer-cchzc454ej3jhb72.cloudflarestream.com/8faac55240d7e45b04e04f0fab11bd0a/iframe?muted=true&preload=true&poster=https%3A%2F%2Fcustomer-cchzc454ej3jhb72.cloudflarestream.com%2F8faac55240d7e45b04e04f0fab11bd0a%2Fthumbnails%2Fthumbnail.jpg%3Ftime%3D%26height%3D600"
    loading="lazy"
    style="border: none; position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; height: 100%; width: 100%;"
    allow="accelerometer; gyroscope; autoplay; encrypted-media; picture-in-picture;"
    allowfullscreen="true"
  ></iframe>
</div>

vt works perfectly with your favorite LLM tools: it can even initialize a
[AGENTS.md](https://agents.md/) file that contains all of the context necessary
to write code for the Val Town platform.

People are already using vt to build cool projects, like
[Geoffrey Litt's Stevens](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=43681287)
project, a really cool AI personal assistant telegram bot, built locally with
cursor and vt. We built Val Town's new [Val search](https://codesearch.val.run/)
on Val Town itself, with Claude Code and vt.

## Use the companion browser extension

<div style="position: relative; padding-top: 54.87804878048781%;margin-bottom:2em;border: 1px solid #000;">
  <iframe
    src="https://customer-cchzc454ej3jhb72.cloudflarestream.com/39c35e5244e103f5bfb2c743752cb7ba/iframe?muted=true&preload=true&poster=https%3A%2F%2Fcustomer-cchzc454ej3jhb72.cloudflarestream.com%2F39c35e5244e103f5bfb2c743752cb7ba%2Fthumbnails%2Fthumbnail.jpg%3Ftime%3D%26height%3D600"
    loading="lazy"
    style="border: none; position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; height: 100%; width: 100%;"
    allow="accelerometer; gyroscope; autoplay; encrypted-media; picture-in-picture;"
    allowfullscreen="true"
  ></iframe>
</div>

vt also has a companion browser extension which pairs with `vt watch` to
automatically reload the tab as you edit your Val.

It's available for
[Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/vt-companion/jjpaicfaaobmjlcppnooejnjnbefalfo)
or [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/vt-companion/).

If you have `vt watch` running, it should "just work"! The companion
communicates with vt's watcher over a local WebSocket connection.

## We want feedback!

vt is a big leap forward in the local development experience for Val Town. But
we're always looking to improve and polish the experience. If you have any
feedback we'd love to hear it. You can join our Discord server
[here](https://discord.gg/dPeaMwfarG), and contribute ideas, PRs, or issues to
the [val-town/vt GitHub repo](https://github.com/val-town/vt).

<img
  src="https://imagedelivery.net/iHX6Ovru0O7AjmyT5yZRoA/6c37ffa5-3136-4528-c946-4643806d5100/public"
  alt="All editors supported"
/>

<br />

---

<br />

# Building VT

For the curious, here's more of a technical dive into the makings of `vt` (or
maybe just an excuse for me to talk about FUSE)!

## Finding a Path

There's a lot of different paths we could take to engineer a local val town
development experience.

![Diagram from https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~./fp/courses/15213-s07/lectures/15-filesys/index.html](https://wolf-mermelstein-personal-website.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/bcbdf72d-0875-4288-ab8c-3b06b1cace32.webp)

Originally, this project took the form of a fuse file system. Fuse is a Linux
protocol that lets you implement arbitrary file systems in userspace. By
implementing a fuse val town file system, all edits locally are instantly
reflected on the val town website, and vice versa (if you update remotely, then
if you try to save locally your editor will say something along the lines of
"more recent edits found, are you sure you want to write"). Fuse is very
powerful -- writes, reads, and all other file system syscalls can be handled
with whatever response you want.

This project was `vtfs`, a project with the goal of exposing val town
functionality through a file system. Originally it was a side project of mine,
because "can I write the code in neovim" was the first question I asked myself
when I first saw Val Town. I love the elegance of a file being a website, and
thought it would be fun to be able to do a "touch website.ts" to create them,
via the magic of fuse, and val town!

[And so I built it](https://github.com/404wolf/valfs)! `valfs` was really cool:
you'd run `vt mount [dir]` and you'd get a folder with all of your vals in it.

Vt was built written in `golang` with
[`go-fuse`](https://github.com/hanwen/go-fuse), because, I didn't want to deal
with C++ package management, and I wanted to try `go`.

![](https://wolf-mermelstein-personal-website.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/37c9a2a8-3f0a-4b52-a9c7-cf7c0cc0799b.webp)

Unfortunately `vtfs` no longer works anymore and because of breaking API
changes, and, while there was work in progress on `vtfs` to add support for val
town projects, development has paused on the project in favor of `vt`.

We decided to rewrite it, mostly for compatability reasons. Linux offers native
fuse support, but MacOS and Windows definitely do not. For Mac, there's a
project called [MacFuse](https://macfuse.github.io/) that acts as a kernel
extension to provide fuse support to Mac. However, it's not totally stable, and
[Apple is deprecating kernel extensions](https://developer.apple.com/support/kernel-extensions/)
and it may not be the best long term solution. There's a really cool project
called [fuse-t](https://www.fuse-t.org/) that takes a different approach, where
it implements the fuse protocol by forwarding fuse to NFS (network file system),
a protocol that Macs do natively support.

Even though it's a total rewrite, though, many design choices for `vt` came from
`vtfs`.

# Going Git

`vt` is heavily inspired by both `git` and [gh](https://cli.github.com/), the
github CLI. There's elements like `vt push` and pull that are very `git`ty, and
things like `vt create` that act like `gh repo create`.

![Gh browse](https://wolf-mermelstein-personal-website.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/017b5db4-0379-4965-a94f-e9101a69b485.webp)

One handy `vt` command that we added is `vt browse`. `vt browse` opens up the
current project in a web browser. As we work on improving hybrid workflows with
the CLI and website, we will probably turn to `gh` to extend `vt browse`'s
functionality.

### The Meaning of `VT Pull` and `VT Push`

Unlike `git`, where you have a `stage` and `commits`, `vt` only has a notion of
`pushing` and `pulling`. This means that the local state could conflict in ways
with the remote state that could result in changes that we can't reconsile:
like, if you pull and you have newer changes locally, or If you push and there
are newer changes in the remote.

[We spent a while considering what pushing and pulling meant](https://github.com/val-town/vt/issues/45).
The conclusion we came to:

- `pushing` is a forceful procedure. When you push we ensure that the remote
  state matches the local state, and by the end of the push the remote state
  should match the local state with no changes to the local state. This might
  sound scary, but we do versioning for projects, so in the worst case you could
  revert to an earlier version on the website and pull.
- `pulling` is a "graceful" procedure. When you pull, you may receive
  modifications, deletions, creations, or renames to local files. For all of
  these changes except creations, pulling warns the user that local changes will
  be lost, and you need to confirm to complete the pull. This is implemented
  internally by doing a "dry" pull and checking what changes would be made
  locally.

This means that the contract for push is "push the local state to make sure the
remote matches it" and pull is "get the remote state and make sure the local
state matches it."

Something we get for free is `status`. `git status` looks at changes since the
previous commit, but `vt status` is identical to `vt push --dry-run`, and shows
you all the changes that would get pushed.

### Beautiful Abstractions

As it turns out, many of the internal vt operations are able to easily piggyback
off of one another. Like `vt push --dry-run` being the same as `vt status`,
`vt pull` just does a `vt clone`, and then removes stuff that does not exist on
the remote that still exists locally, or `vt checkout` is somewhat like
`vt pull`-ing the branch you are trying to check out. These abstractions make
testing and maintenance much easier.

### Syncing

One idea that we had to solve this problem of "the meaning of push and pull" was
to totally scrap both, and change the contract to "sync to a consistent state."
As it turns out, syncing really just redirects all the complexity, and is still
quite complicated to implement.

I spent a while designing an algorithm for syncing, where the primary "building
block" of the algorithm was to "walk" through revisions and make changes to the
local state incrementally. Syncing would start by pulling to incorporate all
remote changes locally, and then push the remainder. It also would look at
modification times to try to guess which update should be kept in the case of
local/remote conflicts.

```
Procedure Sync:
  1. Pull Updates from Remote
     - While current_version < latest_version:
       - Fetch the delta for current_version --> current_version + 1 
	       from the remote.
       - Apply the delta:
         - New File:
           - If the file does not exist locally:
               - Create it.
           - Else:
               - Keep the newer one (compare btime or maybe mtime?).
         - Deleted File:
           - If the local mtime <= than the remote delete time:
               - Delete it locally.
           - Else:
               - Do nothing, keep the local file. We'll push it back later.
         - Modified File:
           - If modified locally:
               - Keep the newer modification.
           - Else:
               - Update the local file with the remote version.
       - Increment current_version.

  2. Push Local Changes
     - For each file in the local vt directory:
       - If file.mtime > remote_file.updatedAt:
         - Upload the file.
       - If the file exists locally but not on the server:
         - Upload it.

  3. Cleanup Remote Server, Fix Local State
     - For each file in the recursive vt server listing:
       - If it does not exist locally, delete it from the remote.
       - Update the local file's mtime to be the server's
     - Update version: current_version++ (should match remote_version++).
```

Working on `vt`, I came across a lot of really cool abstractions

## The Live Dev Experience

One of the most important use cases of `vt` is "watch" functionality. From the
beginning, my plan for this was to implement "git" behavior first (pushing and
pulling), and then just doing file system watching to add live syncing using
[Deno.watchFs](https://docs.deno.com/api/deno/~/Deno.watchFs) to handle file
system events.

![](https://wolf-mermelstein-personal-website.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/79892400-37e7-4ab3-a862-02b1ecb724ce.webp)

One particularly annoying challenge with `vt watch` was handling debouncing.
Deno's standard library has an [async module](https://jsr.io/@std/async) that
was super useful for implementing `vt watch`. `vt watch` works by doing a `push`
initially, and then whenever local changes are made running another `vt push`.
It sounds super simple!

The issue is that there's a lot of different things that could trigger a "files
were changed" notification, and doing the push itself is one of them (the `.vt`
folder has files internally that get updated on a push). Instead of working out
the corner cases, I added a grace for post-pushing before we are able to detect
file changes again.

I also debounce the push. Initially, I did this so that if you are doing large
amounts of file modifications we wait until you're done before starting the
push, but it turns out this is more important because of how editors will create
ephemeral temporary files during writes. Now, when you edit a file, the editor
might create transient files, but as long as it gets rid of them within the
debounce the final state that gets pushed is the one that does not include those
temporary files.

## Naming

### Val Types

One of the initial concerns was how one could edit val metadata locally, if we
are limited to the context of files.

{/* ![](Screenshot%202025-04-16%20at%206.32.46%20PM.webp) */}

`vtfs`'s approach to this was to pack all of the metadata for a val into the
file corresponding to it. For Val Town projects, it's a bit more complex,
because there's metadata specific to vals in the project, and metadata for the
entire project itself too. We decided that, in general, changing val metadata
and other uniquely val town attributes is something that we would leave to the
website.

`vtfs` would indicate the type of a given val locally as `foobar.H.tsx` (or, if
verbose, `foobar.http.tsx`), which was a really nice pattern. If you wanted to
change the type of a val, you could just rename it to `foobar.script.tsx`. This
pattern, however, turns out not to work as well for projects because vals in
projects generally are suffixed with `.tsx`, so you would end up with
`foobar.http.tsx.tsx`, and it would get messy quickly -- and there were some
issues with Vscode not liking `.script.tsx`.

Instead of doing strict enforcement -- maintaining a 1:1 mapping of file
extension to val type -- `vt` intuits the val type only on creation. If you
create a `foobar.tsx`, `vt` sees `.tsx` and assumes it's a script. If you create
`foobar_http.tsx` or `foobar.http.tsx`, `vt` sees `.tsx`, knows it's a val and
not a file, and then guesses it's an `http` val. But it never will change it
after the fact, so you can change `foobar.http.tsx` to be a script val on the
website, and that's what it will continue to be going forward.

## Renaming

It might seem simple at first, but if you think about it, detecting whether a
file was renamed is actually really tricky. If we move `foo.ts` to `bar.ts` how
do we know that it wasn't a `CREATE bar.ts` and `DELETE foo.ts`? Originally we
didn't plan on adding rename detection support to `vt` because of all the
complexity that comes with rename detection.

![](https://wolf-mermelstein-personal-website.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/blob_file_1744341763182_recording.gif)

But then we realized that, without rename detection, if you move a val with
configuration -- like cron config, or custom endpoint HTTP vals, then doing the
deletion/creation would cause you to lose all your config! And so, we added
rename detection to `vt`.

The rename detection algorithm is a bit complicated -- it works by looking at
all files that got deleted and that got created, and then considering a file as
renamed if a created file is sufficiently similar to a file that got deleted.
When iterating over created files to see if a deleted file is similar enough to
one of them, we use some heuristics to filter out files that could not possibly
be similar enough, like the file length. Then we compute the Levenshtein
distance between a given deleted file and created file, and consider a given
created file "renamed" if it is above some theshold similar to a deleted file,
and if it is similar enough to multiple, then the one it is most similar to
[as it turns out, Deno's standard library has a super efficient edit distance function](https://jsr.io/@std/text).
Git does fancy
[directory rename detection](https://git-scm.com/docs/directory-rename-detection/2.22.0),
which is something that, at least for now, `vt` does not do.

Because rename detection is relatively expensive, it is internally implemented
as an optional operation that doesn't always get used for every `vt` operation.
For example, there isn't a lot of reason to do rename detection for `vt pull` --
it would really just be for reporting.

## Blob Store

For `vtfs`, something I wanted to add early on was a way to "mount" your val
town blob store so that you could view, edit, and organize your blobs. With
fuse, there's a ton of flexibility on how to implement inodes. `go-fuse`
provides a lot of nice abstractions. For totally static files like `deno.json` I
was using the
[MemRegularFile](https://github.com/hanwen/go-fuse/blob/v2.7.2/fs/mem.go#L17)
helper, which makes it trivial to create an Inode with static text contents. For
Vals, I was doing it more manually, implementing the read and write methods for
a custom `ValFile` Inode myself. But for blobs, I wanted to handle reads and
writes by streaming the relavent portions of the file.

When implementing my own write callback for fuse, I would be handling requests
to write data to a region of a file (like, write 0001010101 starting at index 22
bytes). Our `/v1/blob` endpoint is somewhat restrictive here. You can only write
an entire file, or get an entire file. Handling this was really tricky -- I
could start a new upload to upload the entire state of the file, with the new
change made in the current write call, but if you're writing a lot of data to a
file (like if you `cp bigFile.png` to the folder that I was using to represent
your val town blobs), then there would typically be a burst of write requests to
write to consecutive regions of the file.

I spent a long time working on setting up a pipe where I would handle
consecutive writes, writes that start at index i, end at index i+k, and then a
new write that starts at index i+k+1, etc, as a special case. Eventually, I got
something working!

For `vtfs` I was using
[Openapi Generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator), and it
turned out that Val Town's OpenAPI specification didn't accept file sizes on the
order of my tests -- where the response would include the file size, it was an
integer, not a `format: int64` (long).

{/* ![Working piped blob uploads](Pasted%20image%2020250414162037.webp) */}

Maintaining this, and getting writes to work non consecutively continued to
prove a huge challenge. `valfs` blob read/write support was a fun challenge to
work on, but was never totally reliable.
